---
layout: post
title: You gotta ask the question
---

**The best advice I ever received**

Over the course of my career, I have been offered much advice. However, when
people ask me what the best advice I ever got was I always come back to the
same story.

In my first job out of college I was a Regional Director for my college
fraternity, Sigma Phi Epsilon. The job consisted of traveling through a region
of the country and working with the chapters there to help them with
leadership development, management, and recruitment — sort of a management
consultant. I traveled in New York and New England, visiting our 27 chapters
there.

One of the most important roles Regional Directors played was in a recruiting
alumni volunteers to work with individual chapters. Strong volunteer support
is the best predictor of long-term success for a chapter. And I had one
chapter in desperate need of strong alumni support — so I set about recruiting
some.

I found a former staff member who was local and had the right personality and
I asked him to brunch — the perfect candidate. At brunch, I talked about the
challenges the chapter was facing, the importance of alumni support, the need
for a strong alumni leader with a forceful personality. It was obvious to us
both I needed and wanted his help — but I didn’t ask him to help. I just
talked about the issues. I guess I was hoping he would just volunteer.

After 20 minutes he looked at me and said “Jeff, you gotta ask the question.
No one can say yes if you don’t ask the question.” So I asked him to get
involved and he said “Absolutely.”

This may seem like an obvious point, but it is shocking how often people avoid
asking the question. I’ve watched sales reps walk out of meetings and never
ask for the business — and these are people who are paid (often very well) to
ask the question! I’ve seen bizdev discussions wander around in circles
because no one wants to ask about doing a deal. People just don’t like asking
the question, because you don’t know what answer you’re going to get.

Sure, when you ask the question you might get a “no.” It happens. But if you
don’t ask the question you will **-never-** get a “yes”. As Mark Suster [has
said](http://www.bothsidesofthetable.com/2013/05/15/the-one-word-that-
shouldnt-exist-in-an-entrepreneurs-vocabulary/) “You Don’t Ask, You Don’t
Get.” And at least a “no” lets you know where you stand and allows you to ask
why and start addressing the underlying issues (or move on if there is no way
to get to “yes”). But you will be shocked how often just asking for what you
want will get it for you. So the next time you find yourself talking around
what you really want, remember that “you gotta ask the question” and do it.

