---
layout: post
title: Why I Love Golf
---

“A good walk spoiled” is how Mark Twain once described the game of golf. I
know many people who would agree with that assessment — and when I can’t seem
to find my swing I have been among them. The appeal of the game is a mystery
to many who find it to be silly, boring, and overly time consuming (my wife
would generally agree with this point of view). However, golf has been a large
part of my life for two and half decades now, since I first started pleasingly
regularly at the age of 10.

The big question is why. What draws me to a game that is endlessly frustrating
and tine consuming. As I reflect on what keeps bringing me back to the course
week after week, I find three key reasons.



Golf is something I’ve shared with my father from the beginning — and I think
that’s a big reason I fell in love with it. It’s also something I’m bringin my
two sons into. I fondly remember spending hours each weekend on the course
with my Dad — they are some of my best memories. I hope to build the same
thing with my sons — and honestly how else can you get a teenage kid to spend
4 hours alone with you regularly on the weekends? Golf isn’t just about the
game — it’s about who you get to spend those precious hours with.

### Competing against yourself

One of the most rewarding things about the game is that it is a competition
solely against yourself. Sure, there are lots of ways to compete against other
players — but ultimately it’s just you and the course. The game is really a
matter of living up to your potential — and the only thing stopping you is
yourself. I love the pressure of trying to perform each shot well — and then
trying to put the last shot out of your mind and hit the next one. The game of
golf is 90% mental — and that mental game against myself is something I
relish.

### Always room to improve

Finally, no matter how good you get the game there is always room to improve.
Even professionals make mistakes in each round — both mental and physical. Ben
Hogan, one of the greatest golfers of all time, once said that he only hit 3
or 4 shots around exactly the way he wanted to — the rest are just good
misses. I’m luck to hit 1 or 2 shots a round exactly the way I want. But those
1 or 2 shots show you what you’re capable of — and keep you coming back.

This certainly isn’t a complete listing of the things I love about golf — but
it’s a good start. I would love to hear from other golfers — what keeps you
coming back?

