---
layout: post
title: Golf Statistics
---

#### A better way to track and improve your golf game

Late last year I attended the [Pelz Short Game
School](http://www.pelzgolf.com/golfschools/aboutlocation.aspx?location=3-Day-Golf-Schools)
in Palm Springs with my friend Jason. If you’re interested in learning a lot
about the short game and making huge improvements over three days (and don’t
mind paying for it), I’d highly recommend it! In addition to teaching
technique, the course covers a lot of the statistics that caused Pelz to
really focus on the short game as the most important element to scoring well.
That got me thinking about the statistics I keep and whether they really help
me improve me game.

The purpose of keeping statistics on your game is to help you figure out what
you need to get better at to improve — and specifically to lower you score. I
was keeping the same statistics as most people — fairways hit, greens in
regulation, putts taken, sand saves, etc. However, my instructor pointed out
that most of these were not very valuable statistics in actually understanding
where your game is strong or week.

For example, percent greens in regulation — what does that statistic actually
tell you? If it’s trending down — what do you need to work on? The answer is —
it depends. Were you missing greens from the middle of the fairway because
your irons were badly off? Or did you simply not have many reasonable shots at
the green. A high number of putts taken could simply be cause by continually
hitting the ball to 60’ — while a low number of putts taken could be caused by
missing lots of greens and chipping it close — neither of which is about your
putting!

Probably the best statistics out there for telling you where you are playing
well or poorly is the “strokes gained” statistic. This is essentially tells
you whether you performed better or worse than other players from similar
situations. For example, if it took you 2.5 strokes on average to get the ball
in the hole from 60 feet on the green — and everyone else took an average of
2.2 — then you’re losing .3 strokes on 60 foot putts. You can do the same sort
of math for any sort of shot — and those numbers are as good as it gets for
understanding your strengths and weaknesses — but they have two big problems.

### Problems with Current Stats

First, they require you to keep a very detailed log of shots and outcomes —
not realistic for most amateur golfers. Second, they require a peer group to
compare against — for which you have similar statistics. That makes this a
fabulous stat for PGA tour pros who have a team of analysts tracking very shot
they hit — and a field of competitors every week to compare to. However, it’s
not a realistic model for your average weekend amateur. So I wanted to see if
I could create a model that was simple enough to be usable and yet still
helpful in pointing out what was working and what wasn’t — here’s what I came
up with.

Pelz breaks the game up into three different “games” — the power game, the
short game, and putting. Each needs different statistics to see how they are
performing. I ended up creating 2–3 stats for each game. I also wanted to keep
the stats very simple to track in order to make them easy to use — if you’re
anything like me anything too complicated just won’t get done. My principle
was I needed to easily be able to keep them all on the bottom half of my
scorecard when I was paying. Here are my stats:

### Power Game

The power game is probably the most similar to the traditional statistics you
measure. To measure accuracy off the tee — we measure the percentage of time
we hit a tee shot and give ourselves a reasonable shot at the green. This is a
bit more subjective — but I think it’s better than counting shots in the first
cuts as “missed fairways”. For approach shots, we calculate the percentage or
reasonable attempts that are successful.

This second statistic can get a bit interesting. For one — you may not have
any result at all for a hole where you miss the fairway badly — or for a Par 5
your go for in 2. No success and no failure — just nothing. Secondly, you can
define “success” and “reasonable” variably depending on your level. You may
choose not to include shots with more than a 4 iron because it’s not realistic
for you to reach the green. You may define “success” variably based on the
club (eg hitting anywhere on the green with a 4 iron is success, but on the
green outside of 20 feet is not).

My rules for “success” are on the green with a long iron (4–6), 30 feet away
with a mid (7–8) and within 20 feet for a wedge (I carry 4). I don’t include
attempts with hybrids or woods. It’s not critical that your success criteria
are the same — but you should figure out how you want to define them before
you start each round. And as you get better — you may want to update them to
help you set new standards for yourself!

### Short Game

My short game stats veer even a little farther away from the standards. Here,
I break the game down into pitches, chips, and sand shots and calculate the
“success percentage” of each type shot. Success is generally defined as
getting inside of 5 feet for chips and 10 feet for pitches and sand shots.
Once we’ve gotten inside those distances, we’ve given ourselves a reasonable
chance at up-and-down.

### Putting

Putting is where things get more interesting. Most players only look at number
of putts, or number of putts on greens in regulation. However, that doesn’t
tell you enough about how well you’re putting. Pelz breaks putting down into
lag putts (generally 15 feet plus) and makable putts (generally 3–15 feet).
Putts inside of 3 feet should be make almost all of the time. I keep track of
the percentage of successful putts for each type. For lag putts, success is
defined as being inside of 3 feet. For makable putts its defined as being
inside of 3 feet — and getting to the hole (short doesn’t count). The theory
here is that for makable putts you can’t afford to leave it short, but lag
putts you just want to get close.

### Tracking

This leaves us with 7 statistics to keep: all success percentages for: tee
shots, approach shots, chips, putts, sand shots, lag putts, and makable putts.
This feels like a reasonable number — and it’s something we can count on a
round-by-round level and not at the individual hole level. And, since each
statistic is a success percentage we can easily look and see what kind of
shots we are executing consistently and which we are not — great info that can
help you decide where to focus your practice time.

scorecard tracking stats from a recent round — wish I hadn’t fallen apart at
the end!

During a round I use the bottom of the scorecard to track these stats. I
dedicate one line each to (1) tee shots (2) approach shots (3) short game (4)
putts. On the tee and approach lines I put a check or an X for success or
failure and leave it blank if there was no reasonable attempt made. For the
short game, I will enter a “P”, “C” or “S” for the type of shot along with a
check or an X based the results (hopefully we don’t need more than one!)
Finally, on the putting line I enter a “L” or an “M” for the type of shot
along with a check or an X (sometimes with an LX, we need a second entry for
an M).

At the end of each round, I add up the totals and add them to this spreadsheet
to track my stats. It’s very helpful to see how I’m performing and trending in
each area of my game. In particular, it lets me know where I should be
spending my practice time if I really want to improve my game — and my scores!
I’d love feedback on these stats (I’m still working on them) and the tracking
mechanism — I’m always looking for new and better ways to improve my game!

