---
layout: post
title: Morning Routine
---

I’ve never found anything that helps me approach each day with energy and
enthusiasm like a morning routine. When I finish everything on my list before
my kids are even up I feel like I’ve already won the day. I also feel in
control instead of just responding to whatever comes my way first. It’s a
great feeling and really kick starts my day!

Below is my routine. I don’t think there’s any magic to these particular
actions — but this is what I try to do first thing. I do all of this before I
look at email or the news or anything really. It is critical that I don’t let
anything get in the way of starting the routine — or it will likely derail the
whole exercise. If it weren’t for the podcasts I listen to while running, I
wouldn’t even grab my phone when I get out of bed.

**5.00 Alarm goes off.** This is always the hardest part for me — leaving
warmth of the covers and having my feet hit the floor. No snooze button, just
get up and go!

**5.15 Run on the treadmill.** Okay, so it shouldn’t take 15 minutes to get
from bed to the treadmill — but give me break, it’s 5am! I usually do 15–30
minutes of either a good paced run or intervals. Getting the blood pumping
early in the morning always raises my energy level. I usually listen to a
podcast while I’m running. (My favorites: [Ezra Klein
Show](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-ezra-klein-
show/id1081584611?mt=2), [Recode
Decode](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/recode-decode-hosted-by-
kara/id1011668648?mt=2),
[Exponent](https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/exponent/id826420969?mt=2))

**5.35 Mindfulness.** Right after I get off the treadmill I start a 10 minute
mindfulness exercise. I find it helpful to calm my mind (it tends to race and
wander). Currently I’m using [Calm](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/calm-
meditation-to-relax-focus/id571800810?mt=8) and often use the Body Scan or I
do a 10 minute timed meditation. I’ve also tried
[Headspace](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/headspace-guided-
meditation/id493145008?mt=8), but just like the narration in Calm better.

**5.45 5 Minute Journal.** I’ve played on and off with journaling, but hadn’t
found something I could stick with until I found [5 Minute
Journal](https://www.intelligentchange.com/products/the-five-minute-journal).
It asks you to respond to two prompts in the morning and two in the evening.
In the morning they are: -3 Things I’m grateful for…- and -What will I do to
make today great?- In the evening it is -3 Amazing things that happened today-
and -What could I have done better today?- I really enjoy spending a bit of
time reflecting on things and I find it helps me be a more thoughtful person.
I currently do this in a Moleskine journal.

**5.50 GTD Daily Review.** I like David Allen’s [-Getting Things
Done-](http://gettingthingsdone.com/) methodology for task management — but
even if you don’t I think taking 5–1 minutes in the morning to plan out your
day is critical. I usually review my meetings and notes from yesterday, look
through all my projects to make sure I have the right next actions identified,
and pick what I plan to get done today. I will try to identify one important,
large task that I call my -One Big Thing- that I tackle first thing in the
morning after I drop my kids off at school. This helps to build some momentum
of getting things done early and not caught up in the details of responding to
email, etc.

**6.00 Pack Lunches.** This may not fit with the rest of them, but it helps
keep my wife happy and means I can feel like a good Dad and Husband and not
just personally productive.

**6.15 Coffee and News** If I manage to get everything done and my family
still isn’t awake yet, I will relax with coffee and read the news ([NY Times
Daily Briefing](http://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/morning-briefing),
[Economist Espresso](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/economist-espresso-brief-
morning/id896628003?mt=8)). If not, it’s time to play with the kids and make
breakfast — news is optional.

So, that’s a little glimpse into the first hour of my day. Many days I won’t
get everything done — but I find the more I can commit to this routine first
thing in the morning the better I feel. Try building a morning routine for
yourself and see if it works for you too!

