---
layout: post
title: The Challenge with Chatbots
---

I continue to notice the conversation around machine learning and artificial
intelligence (ML/AI) in the finance sector to be driven in large part by the
concept of chatbots specifically, and conversational interfaces (eg Amazon
Alexa, Google Home) more broadly I find this a bit of a mystery as I think
there easier and more impactful areas in finance to apply machine learning.
Why the skepticism about chatbots? Here are my reasons:

  * **They are hard to do well.** This is true for a number of reasons. Chatbots generally require natural language processing (a difficult and not well-solved problem) and the ability to handle a wide variety of requests. You can simplify the problem by providing a menu of options, but that starts to look like a text-based IVR — which isn’t inspiring.
  * **Apps work pretty well.** Given that likely users of chatbots already have a bank’s mobile app we have to consider how much better chatbots will work than the existing apps. For instance, I can get to my account balance with just a fingerprint in most banking apps. The most common uses are reasonably well handled in most banking mobile apps today — and having to type out commands will likely take longer than a well-designed app-based interface.

What is more perplexing to me, is that there are many areas ripe for use of
ML/AI. Many back office functions from credit underwriting, to fraud detection
and process automation are great candidates for the use of ML/AI. And, while
they don’t make great user-facing demos, they are often problems well-suited
to machine learning — they have relatively well defined inputs (eg credit
files, site interaction points, etc) and they have large existing data sets
that can be used for training models.

At Upstart, we are using machine learning to improve credit underwriting,
automation, and fraud prevention to great effect. You can see more about the
results we have achieved [on our website](https://www.upstart.com/about).

I would love to see more conversations about how we can use AI/ML to really
improve core banking functions and user experience. Over the next few weeks,
I’ll be heading to the [American Banker’s Association Annual
Convention](https://www.aba.com/Training/Conferences/Pages/annual.aspx) and
[Money 20/20](https://www.money2020.com/) and I’ll be looking around to see
what other interesting use cases FIs have found for ML/AI. Let me know if
you’ll be at either show and want to catch up!

