---
layout: post
title: Poor Design- An Example
---

#### Why you have to think about how people actually use your product


As you may or may not know, I’m an avid golfer. I haven’t written a lot about
golf, but it’s one of my real passions — and I’m finally getting my kids into
it. And I’ve finally gotten around to writing this post about a golf product
that is poorly designed and gives a great example of what happens when you
don’t fully think through how your users will utilize your product. I know
this example isn’t relevant to most people — but I think it makes a useful
point about effective product design.

My course uses a company called [Strackaline](https://www.strackaline.com/) to
print out a sheet every day that tells you where on each green the hole has
been placed. This can be very valuable information. The company has a mobile
app that you can use, but that generally slows down the round. Most people
simply utilize the one-page pin sheet that the software also produces. Above
is an example of one from my course this weekend.


This pin sheet is quite useful and a very effective format for it’s purpose.
The basic idea is to have an image of each green with colors representing high
and low points, and the pin represented on the image of the green. In
addition, there is a number indicating whether the hole is in front of or
behind the middle of the green and by how far. The page is laid out with a
grid of these images spanning three columns and six rows. This neatly fits all
18 holes and leaves enough space and a proportional area for each image. So
far so good. The holes are laid out in a pretty standard format — left-to-
right and top-to-bottom.


As logical as that layout may sound, however, it is not well suited to the way
people actually use the pin sheets on a course. Let me explain. Most golfers
will carry this pin sheet in their back pocket if they are walking. In order
to make it fit, you have to fold it. This is generally accomplished by folding
it in half — and then into thirds (so you don’t fold it right over the image
of the greens in the middle). This leaves us with 6 separate panels — two of
which are immediately visible at any time when the sheet is folded.

When you add the hole numbers onto this layout, you can see the issue. Holes
that are played sequentially are never on the same panel. So, finding the
current hole always involves refolding the paper to expose a different panel.
I admit, this is a minor annoyance, but every time I do it I’m annoyed that
someone at [Strackaline](https://www.strackaline.com/#/) hasn’t thought of a
better method yet. A simple improvement would be to move from having the left-
to-right flow being primary, to having the top-to-bottom flow being primary,
though broken at the middle of the page. That would leave us with each panel
housing 3 consecutive holes — and cutting down how often we need to re-fold
the paper. It’s a simple change — but it fits the usage pattern of real users
much better.

You could also imagine a few other simple improvements, like a dotted line
explaining where to fold the sheets (since folding a page into thirds isn’t
obvious). I know these are minor quibbles and not really a major issue — but I
also think it is a good example of how designing a product with basic
intuition does not always match up with how your product gets used in real
life — and spending the time to understand real world usage patterns can help
you design better products.

And, Strackaline team, if you read this, please feel free to use my
suggestions!

