---
layout: post
title: 7 Minute Workout
---

When I posted a while ago about my [Morning
Routine](https://jeffkeltner.com/morning-routine/), I was running pretty
regularly on the treadmill. If I’m being honest, I have found that a struggle
to maintain. Running is hard for me to get into first thing in the morning —
and by the time I’m fully awake there often is not enough time left to fit in
the run. There’s also the issue that I usually need to take a shower after
running — and that eats up more time in the morning. While I do get up early
enough to have the time — it’s hard to fit in things like the shower once my
kids wake up and start occupying my time.


However, I’ve found a nice compromise that has worked well for me — the 7
minute workout. Popularized by [this New York Time
article](https://well.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/05/09/the-scientific-7-minute-
workout/) several years ago, it’s a series of exercises intended to maximize
the fitness impact of just 7 minutes. Generally, it’s a series of simple
exercises that require no equipment other than a chair. You complete :30 of
each exercise, and then rest for :10. 7 minutes later, you’re done!

I really enjoy the mix of strength and cardio this workout involves — and it’s
definitely been a good replacement for running on the treadmill for me. It’s
also fabulous when you’re traveling as it’s easy to do in any hotel room you
might be in and doesn’t require finding equipment of bringing extra clothes or
shoes.

Recently, I’ve started to use the [J&J Official 7 Minute
Workout](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/j-j-official-7-minute-
workout/id784797900?mt=8) app. It has a variety of workouts that can be a nice
change of pace. if you’re looking for quick, simple, and effective workout
routine, give it a try!

