---
layout: post
title: DC Capital Bikeshare
---

My wife and I recently spent a few days in Washington, DC. Nearly a decade ago
we spent 3 years living in the DC, and it has become one of my favorite cities
in the country. I always loved how open, green, and flat it is for a real
metropolitan area. Living close to the office and downtown, we used to walk
around the city a lot and I enjoyed how easy it was to get around without a
car.

On this trip, we tried out the new (at least to us) Capital Bikeshare program.
For $8 each for a 24 hour period, we could take as many 30 minute rides as we
wanted on the bikes spread around the city. It was a fabulous way to get
around! The city has really invested in bike lanes to make traveling by bike
safer — which we really appreciated. It just took a few seconds to unlock the
bikes from their dock — and then we could head out to wherever we wanted to
go.

I really appreciated being able to get across town in 10 or 15 minutes and get
a little exercise at the same time. It was much more pleasant than being stuck
in a car — and probably nearly as fast! There was seemingly a station of bikes
every few blocks, so we rarely had to walk far to find one and could almost
always park near our destination.

Seeing people commute around the city on bikes and Bird scooters (which I
don’t have any experience with yet, since they haven’t arrived in my part of
LA) you can really see how the future of urban transportation could be
changing. When you stop assuming that cars are the only (or even the best) way
to get around — so many new possibilities emerge.

It was fun to get a glimpse of this in one of my favorite cities. I’ll be
curious to see how these changes in transportation play out in cities around
the world in the coming years.

