---
layout: post
title: 50 Books — My reading goal for the year
---

favorite reading option — Kindle Voyage

Over the holiday break, I was reading Senator Ben Sasse’s book [-The Vanishing
American Adult-](https://www.amazon.com/Vanishing-American-Adult-Coming-
Crisis-
ebook/dp/B01MCUS3KV/ref=sr-1-1-twi-kin-1?ie=UTF8&qid=1515171841&sr=8-1&keywords=vanishing+american+adult).
I quite enjoyed the book overall, though I do disagree with the Senator on a
great many things. However, the one thing that I immediately took away was the
his challenge of reading 100 books in a year. I haven’t come anywhere close to
this number historically, and I don’t expect to this year. However, I am going
to make my start down this path with a goal of reading 50 books this year —
roughly one per week. Either way you look at the goal, it seems quite daunting
to me. But it also seems worth doing.

To be fair, I read quite a bit now. I just do too much of it on Twitter and in
quite-hit articles from online publications. I find that there is something
altogether different about reading a full book on a subject, of wrestling with
a difficult concept of topic for the several hours required to finish the book
and deeply contemplating the examples and arguments. Too often we take the
Cliff Notes versions of a great idea and don’t wrestle with the fullness of it
— and I think good books do a great job of helping us dig deeper and get a
better understanding.

I am particularly interested in reading histories. I’m right now finishing
John F Kennedy’s book [-Profiles in Courage-](https://www.amazon.com/Profiles-
Courage-Classic-Perennial-Classics-ebook/dp/B00GR0CJLA/ref=sr-1-1?s=digital-
text&ie=UTF8&qid=1515171872&sr=1-1&keywords=profiles+in+courage) and have
Winston Churchill’s [-The Gathering
Storm-](https://www.amazon.com/s/ref=nb-sb-noss-2?url=search-alias%3Ddigital-
text&field-keywords=the+gathering+storm) waiting for me on my Kindle. If you
have any advice for great books to read — history, biography, fiction,
anything really — please let me know. You can see my current status on my
march towards 50 and my -Want to Read List- [here on
GoodReads](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/18055023-jeff-keltner).

And now, back to my book….

