---
layout: post
title: Checklist Manifesto
---

I recently finished Atul Gawande’s book [The Checklist
Manifesto](http://a.co/egfM4le). It was a fascinating look into the adoption
and success of checklists in a variety of industries from construction to
aviation — and of some places where checklists aren’t used as widely as
perhaps they should be (for instance, Gawande’s chosen profession of
medicine).

I also think that checklists can be incredibly useful in our daily lives. I
use a few checklists on a very regular basis. In particular, I roughly follow
David Allen’s [Getting Things Done](http://gettingthingsdone.com/) task
management system. In my mind, the core of that system is the weekly and daily
reviews. I have a written out checklist for each — and then can be quite long.
However, they force me to run through all the critical items I want to review
to make sure I’m taking care of the most important tasks for the day/week.

In addition, each of these checklists includes other checklists — things like
my deal pipeline, and spreadsheets that track outstanding client deliverables,
etc. Each of these is a good reminder and a way to ensure that I’m not
forgetting any critical items I want to make sure to take care of. I also have
quarterly/annual checklists for things like financial management and household
maintenance tasks.

I’m still thinking of other areas of my life where a checklist can help ensure
I don’t forget things. I know my memory isn’t the best — but that just makes
it easy to commit to a good system of reminders to make sure I’m not relying
on my memory.

