---
layout: post
title: Intermittent Fasting
---

Late last year I had my annual physical. In general I’m in good health, but my
doctor did point out that my cholesterol is high. Not incredibly high — but
higher than it should be at my age. I also have a family history of heart
disease and high cholesterol. He gave me a year to get my cholesterol down
before he was going to put me on medication.

That was a bit of a wake up call for me. I’m not in the greatest shape these
days, but I generally get a decent amount of exercise and I’ve been quite
happy to maintain my weight and not add on any more pounds as I’ve gotten
older. Apparently, those efforts were not enough. So, I decided to really
focus on becoming healthier in the new year. There have been many parts to
that — eating healthier (more vegetables, more fish, less meat and less
processed foods), working out more regularly (100 pushups and 100 sit-ups
every day in addition to my occasional runs). However, one element that has
been incredibly successful for me has been to adopt intermittent fasting.

I am by no means an expert on intermittent fasting. However, the basic
philosophy is to allow the body to enter a fasting state by going long periods
of time between some meals. This typically as the benefits of (1) reducing
total calorie intake and (2) encouraging your body to burn stored fat instead
of a recently eaten meal for energy. You can read a bit more about
intermittent fasting at [Nerd
Fitness](<https://www.nerdfitness.com/blog/a-beginners-guide-to-intermittent-
fasting/>).

There are lots of ways to implement intermittent fasting, but I picked a
simple approach: I skip breakfast. That’s it. I typically eat dinner around
6:30, and just don’t eat again until around noon the next day. The goal is a
16 hour fasting window, so I can grab a snack at 10:30 or 11 if I’m feeling
hungry, but I often don’t.

The results for me have been great. I’ve lost nearly 10 pounds, and have
become noticeably more lean. I also feel great and have more energy (though I
think most people would tell you I was never lacking in energy). I was
somewhat worried about being particularly hungry (and more dangerously,
hangry…) in the mornings, but I haven’t found that to be the case as at all.
It’s been pretty much universally positive for me. If your’e looking for a
simple way to feel better and healthier and lose some weight, I highly
recommend it!

