---
layout: post
title: Top Down Learning
---

I recently wanted to learn a little bit more about machine learning. Given how
important ML is to our work at [Upstart](https://www.upstart.com), I wanted to
add to my conceptual knowledge with a little practical work. So, I set out to
go through some of the coursework at Fast.ai. I enjoyed the coursework. I
didn’t finish all of it, but I did manage to build a few simple machine
learning models that helped me understand the underlying concepts much better.
At least for me, doing some real hands-on work is crucial to developing a
deeper understanding of any topic.

One of the most interesting things about the course was its approach. The
instructors started with helping you build a machine learning model — and
abstracting out much of the underlying theory. He used an analogy that I
thought was very apt — that if we taught baseball the way we teach computer
science we would send kids through years of fluid dynamics before we let them
throw a ball.

I think this is a wonderful analogy for how we teach many topics, especially
science and engineering. We tend to start with foundational concepts — which
can make the practical implications hard to understand. I think kids (and
adults) often do better starting with a high-level project that may abstract
foundational principals — but engages us. Then as we dive deeper into the
project, we learn those principals within a context that makes them more
engaging and applicable.

I found this concept of top-down learning that focuses on project-based
learning. I’m sure there is research going on in this area now, and I’m going
to look for some — and also try to build some top-down fun projects for my
kids to engage with engineering concepts.

