---
layout: post
title: Echo Spot — my new alarm clock
---

My house was already pretty well “connected” with two [Amazon Echo
Dots](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01DFKC2SO?ref=ODS-HA-B-surl&tag=googhydr-20&hvadid=249642321580&hvpos=1t1&hvnetw=g&hvrand=17029766525537834575&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=e&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=9031119&hvtargid=kwd-296997964291&ref=pd-sl-4ee0m9kexv-e)
and one Google Home (though to be fair, the [Google
Home](https://store.google.com/us/product/google-home) has spent the last few
weeks in a drawer, sorry Rishi…). I can’t say there was any obvious reason
that I needed a new “smart home device” (and I hate the phrase), but I was
intrigued by the new [Amazon Echo Spot](https://www.amazon.com/Amazon-VN94DQ-
Echo-Spot-
White/dp/B073SRJD46/ref=sr-1-2?ie=UTF8&qid=1517926139&sr=8-2&keywords=echo+spot)
and some of the positive review it received, so I recently got one of those
for my bedroom.

I was partly inspired to get the Spot because I had been looking for an alarm
clock. I like being able to glance over and check the time and my phone was
not well suited to that. I also like the idea of explicitly not keeping my
phone near my bed — so being able to have a good alarm clock that allowed me
to put the phone somewhere else seemed like a nice plus. And having Alexa
thrown in was a bonus.

So far, I’m really liking the device. The screen is a great size. Once I
switched the default clock from an analog display to a digital one, I find the
interface quite nice. I also enjoy being able to give simple commands to Alex
from the bedroom — and I sometimes use the new briefing features here as well
(though I often do that downstairs instead). I’ve also set up an integration
to my task manager, so I can quickly add tasks when I think of them (or my
wife gives them to me).

It’s not a revolutionary experience, but it is well executed and quite
helpful. It is also cementing Alexa’s place in my tech ecosystem. I fully
expected Google to have the more capable personal assistant experience. I
doubt Apple’s commitment to real software services — and their execution of
them. I similarly thought that Amazon would excel in the productization of
some of this through AWS, but not the execution on the consumer product. So
far, I stand by my call on Apple but Amazon has surprised me.

As of now, Alexa is more useful that Google (or Siri) and available in more
form factors. The ability to control Sonos through Alexa continues to be a
wonderful feature. And I’m amazed that I can read my GSuite calendar through
Alexa, but Google struggles to do that. Google might win out in knowledge
areas or natural language processing, but for day to day tasks Alexa is by far
the best — and becoming an important part of my technology stack .

