---
layout: post
title: HP Chromebook x2 — Great Device for Kids (and maybe adults too)
---

images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*cqZgBLTs2LxPSKpi)![](https://cdn-
images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*14zGlLEzc9gxFwnq)

For Christmas, Santa brought my two boys an HP Chromebook x2 and so far the
device has been a great fit for their needs — and I’ve been impressed by it as
well. At 7 and 9 years old, I wasn’t completely sure that my sons needed their
own device. Previously they have used our iPads or laptops as needed for
homework, etc. However, it has been great to see how they have taken to the
new device.

My oldest son absolutely loves it. He loves having a pen to draw with (and use
as a laser pointer in his presentations). Google Docs is another commonly used
app, and it’s when having a full Chrome browser and a real keyboard are huge
advantages over the iPad. He has also become addicted to making Google Slides
presentations for all of our trips using photos I share with him. We also use
it for some education apps ( [IXL](https://www.ixl.com/) is by far my favorite
educational app so far). My youngest son also does IXL on the device along
with a few games.

When I got the Chromebook, I was worried if it would be capable enough for
them or if they would have preferred an iPad or a Mac laptop of some sort
(though I wasn’t thrilled about the idea of giving them an easily breakable
$1000 device). However, the Chromebook has been a fabulous device for them —
and I’m honestly a bit jealous of it some of the time.

To get the most out of the Chromebook, we have been using all 3 of its app
setups. Some apps are just web apps (Google Docs, Google Slides, YouTube,
etc). However, for quite a few, we actually use the Android app capabilities.
A lot of the better drawing apps fit into this category (Autodesk Sketchbook
is my current favorite). We also have loaded up the new Linux Apps
capabilities and added a Python runtime and Visual Studio Code.

I’m very excited about this capability as it evolves. This is the newest area
of apps for Chromebooks and still has some limitations. I haven’t been able to
get the [Vector SDK](https://developer.anki.com/vector/docs/index.html)
working yet due to some dependencies and USB device supports is coming, which
will be critical for connecting to Arduino (though the Arduino IDE runs just
fine). Clearly, there is still some work to do here, but the progress is
impressive, and it’s headed in the right direction.

The one real weakness I’ve found is that we can’t run Minecraft on it right
now. I’ve tried the Android version (including trying to sideload it), but it
never seems to load. And the Linux version will run but has issues with the
touchpad input (the player always looks straight down…). I’m sure we’ll figure
this one out — but having official support for the Android version with local
network multiplayer games would be a nice development.

And I almost forgot one of my favorite features for the kids (and me!) — real
multi-user support. We have accounts set up for each child and I have my
account on the device as well. So whenever anyone uses it, they are properly
set up with their own apps, logins, etc. It works great — and is something you
just can’t replicate on an iPad!

Honestly, I’ve used the laptop several times and I really enjoy it. It’s well
built and I love being able to take off the screen to read for a bit and throw
it back into laptop mode to do some writing or coding. The experience has me
seriously considering a Pixel Slate for as my next device, once they move the
Linux apps support forward and hopefully add an integrated LTE version.

In the meantime, the HP X2 is a wonderful device for my kids (and for me to
occasionally borrow…)

