---
layout: post
title: Can Slack become the one communication tool to rule them all?
---

I was an early and vocal fan of Slack. I helped bring it into
[Upstart](https://www.upstart.com) and have even set it up for a number of
one-off use cases. I had high hopes that a new tool would give us a chance to
fix some of the issues that have plagued email. We are now a few years in, and
the results are decidedly mixed. I don’t blame Slack here, but I think we are
all struggling to figure out how to manage our technology tools to be more
productive — and avoid having them become non-stop distractions.

Slack has really taken over the bulk of my internal communications. It has
become an invaluable tool for me. Let’s start with the things that make Slack
a great tool.

  * Integrations from outside systems to provide alerts/notices. We have a number of systems that post real time. These are incredibly useful and turn Slack into a sort of command center for my daily life.
  * Defaulting to channel/team communication so that information is shared broadly. This is really useful in keeping a whole team up-to-date. Too many times with email we leave people off “to spare their inbox” and not because they shouldn’t know something. I think sharing more information more broadly is generally very useful for an organization.
  * Real-time communications. This is sort of Slack’s bread and butter and it works incredibly well.

However, there are still a number of ways in which Slack bothers me — and can
become a distraction that pulls me away from my more meaningful work. I think
there are two overall concepts that almost all communication technologies
handle poorly — and most of us end up using multiple communications tools to
separate communications along these axes.

**‌Synchronous vs Asynchronous**  
The first concept I think is overlooked is the difference between synchronous
and asynchronous communications needs. Sometimes when I am contacting someone,
I really need an immediate answer and sometimes I don’t. However, Slack (and
most communication tools) don’t let me differentiate between these two kinds
of messages.

In general, Slack tends to default to synchronous communication — but that’s
not always what we want. Many questions are looking for more thoughtful,
considered answers. The default to synchronous communication pushes people to
quicker, simpler answers. This means I send many issues in need of more though
via email instead of Slack.

**Interrupt Levels**  
The second, related issue is around what I (in a throw-back to my engineering
days) call interrupt levels — that is how much do I want to interrupt what
someone else is doing for them to see this message. For some messages this is
quite high, for others it is very low.

This is somewhat solved within channels by disabling notifications and then
allowing users to leverage @here and @channel to send notifications for more
urgent issues. However, it is much harder in one-to-one messages where there
is no way to really designate whether a message is urgent or not. In general I
treat Slack as a non-urgent channel and then have people use phone/text for
urgent issues.

Perhaps the vision of having a unified communications tool that can handle the
full breadth of communication needs just isn’t practical and we will forever
be stuck using different tools for different needs. However, I continue to
dream of the day I will have one tool for all of my company communication
needs — something that is flexible enough to fill all of my needs. Maybe one
day Slack will be there — but not yet.

