---
layout: post
title: Productive Procrastination
---

One of my favorite professors at Stanford was a philosophy professor named
[John Perry](http://john.jperry.net/). I took several classes from Professor
Perry and I loved that he viewed it as his role to challenge our thinking.
After one particularly animated debate, I remember Professor Perry leaning
over and telling me “I actually agree with you, but they don’t pay me to agree
with you.”

But beyond the practice in critical thinking and testing my assumptions, one
of the most practical things he taught me was the idea of productive
procrastination. Professor Perry believed (and experience has taught me) that
we all procrastinate. We all have times where we push off something that we
need to do, but perhaps don’t want to do — at least not right now.

I’m a fan of pushing myself to drive past these thoughts and do what needs to
be done. But I also accept that sometimes I will come up short — and I will
procrastinate. But here’s the key insight — procrastination doesn’t have to be
wasted time. It can be productive?

Most of the time when we procrastinate, we look for something easy, mindless,
and close by. We open up Twitter, or Facebook, or Instagram, or a new feed and
scroll through the headlines. And how often after 20 minutes of wasted time do
we feel guilty — and realize that the time was truly wasted

But what if instead, we did something that was productive? Something that we
enjoyed, but was actually useful for us. We could turn our procrastination
into a long-term productive goal.

I’ve found this to be incredibly helpful. I also find it’s useful to think in
advance about what productive procrastination activities might be. For me,
these tend to be things that are separate from work or family obligations that
I generally enjoy but don’t have enough time for. It also helps if they are
things you can do in short snippets of time. Personally, I like activities
that are areas of personal development for me.

So, I keep a list in my notebook of a few things I could do to procrastinate
(given my love of the number 3, I typically have 3 of them). Here are my
current 3 items:

  * Study Chinese (I’m in an adult beginner class)
  * Read Blinkist (I have a waiting list of fast books)
  * Code (I have a side project I’m working on)

I highly encourage you to have a list like this — and keep it handy as a
reminder when you start wasting time that if you’re going to avoid doing
something — at least avoid it by doing something productive!

