---
layout: post
title: Data Moats
---

I’d like to think that over the last 6.5 years at Upstart I’ve learned a
little bit about machine learning. I’ve even built a very simple neural
network that performed pitifully in a Kaggle competition. One thing I’ve heard
repeatedly is that a mediocre algorithm with great data will beat a great
algorithm with mediocre data. Of course, having great models and robust data
is obviously the best options…

However, this focus on the quality and quantity of data represents a real
opportunity. There will be a tremendous number of industries where ML
techniques can be extremely valuable and where an early entrant could build a
substantial moat by having the best data sources. This is a virtuous cycle
because as you get new customers, you have even more data vs your competitors
— which leads to a better product (ie more accurate machine learning models)
which leads to more customer wins.

This is a similar dynamic to what has helped Google maintain a lead in search
quality. Having more search data results in a better search algorithm. The
better algorithm attracts more users — resulting in even more data. And on and
the on the cycle goes — and it’s working pretty well for Google.

As a B2B guy by background, I an interesting opportunity to marry this type of
virtuous cycle with a SaaS product. This SaaS company could ultimately build a
moat around their best product by having the most/best data sources to feed
into ML algorithms. You can imagine this happening in a number of areas. Image
processing of various types is a natural (medical, law enforcement, etc), but
there will be interesting opportunities in almost every industry for ML
technologies to make huge improvements over some processes — and for
entrepreneurs to build great businesses.

