---
layout: post
title: 2018 Reading Goal
---

Last year [I set a goal of reading 50 books](https://jeffkeltner.com/50-books-
my-reading-goal-for-the-year/). It was pretty bold for me as I typically read
many fewer books than that. However, I wanted to spend less time on the news
and more time reading longer form content. I’m happy to say that I managed to
read my 50 books in 2018. It was a great experience — and I read a lot of
great books (you can check them out on [my Good Reads
account](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/18055023-jeff-
keltner?shelf=read)).

However, I have decided not to set such an ambitious goal for 2019 — indeed,
I’m not planning to set any specific reading goal for the year. Why not
continue the trend? A few reasons:

  * Having a number of books goal sometimes distorted my reading preferences. I shied away from longer books that might have taken too long and gotten me behind. I want to be able to pick up any book I like and not feel pressure to be able to finish it in a week.
  * Having a large book reading goal forced me to give up other types of reading. I’m generally happier not reading a lot of news and pretty much zero social media, but I also had to cut out a lot of magazines, longer articles I was sent, etc. Having all of your reading time dedicated to books forces you to give up other interesting reading avenues.
  * Finally, I want to be able to focus on several other areas of personal improvement this year — particularly learning some Chinese and spending more time coding and tinkering with my sons. I think these activities can be just as effective at helping to expand my mind — but they have to compete with reading for time.

So I’ll be heading into 2019 enjoying books, but without a specific target in
mind for how many I want to read through the year. I’ll be very interested in
what the total looks like at the end of the year. And if you have any
suggestions — please send them my way!

