---
layout: post
title: OKRs and the Rule of 3
---

Many companies (and individuals) in Silicon Valley leverage OKRs as an
effective way to set goals for their companies and themselves. After being
properly trained (or brainwashed) in the ways of OKRs at Google, I continue to
use them in [my work at Upstart](https://www.upstart.com/blog/okrs-and-
projects-how-we-set-goals-at-upstart) and in my personal life.

For anyone unfamiliar, OKRs stands for Objectives and Key Results. It is a way
of setting goals for an individual or organization. While the basic approach
to OKRs is pretty straight-forward, as with many things the devil is in the
details. Here’s a quick run down of how I like to use OKRs.

**Objectives**  
Objectives are the starting point for OKRs. Objectives should be qualitative
statements about what you want to achieve. I like these to be simple
statements that describe success and they don’t need to be quantified — indeed
I find it easier if they are not (that’s the job of the KRs).

I also like to limit myself and my teams to 3 objectives (5 if you must…). I
think OKRs at their best are be about focus. What are the most important
things we need to achieve? And if you have too many priorities, well then you
really don’t have any. So, I try hard to keep to the limit.

The Objectives also need to be broad enough to encompass the KRs, so there is
usually some interplay between the two as we define them — some Objectives
that maybe should be Key Results with a broader objective — or vice versa.

**Key Results**  
Key Results are the ways you measure the achievement of your objectives. When
done right, they will answer the question “How do we know if we’ve achieved
the Objective?” These are what get graded. KRs should be very clearly
quantified — including what the baseline is, how you’re measuring, etc. If the
goal is to improve a metric, make sure you know the baseline and whether zero
improvement is really a 0 or a .2 or something else. Be very clear on the
measurement — you don’t want to be figuring that out at grading time.

These should be stretch, but not crazy goals. For most organizations, the
objective is to be at an average of .7 or 70% achievement. More than that and
you’re not being aggressive enough. Less than that, and you aren’t being
realistic.

I wrote a piece earlier on two different kinds of ORKS — [Input and
Output](https://jeffkeltner.com/input-vs-output-okrs/). One measures the work
you want to get done and the other measures the results you want to achieve.
While I generally prefer Output KRs, when they are sufficiently aggressive the
Input KRs can give you a chance to get some credit for hard work that didn’t
achieve the expected results. Again, determining the right KRs is a real art
and takes some practice.

**Process**  
The OKR process typically runs quarterly, though you could make it longer
(semi-annual or annually). I think any shorter and the process really won’t
work and will take too much time. When done well, that means that before the
end of a quarter you get together with key people and set your OKRs for the
next quarter. More often, it means you do this in the first 1–2 weeks of a
quarter.

My preferred cadence is to check in on your OKR achievement level monthly. I
also review my OKRs each week as I’m planning out my tasks and calendar to
make sure I’m focused on making progress on all fo them. For the company, I
typically like a team or company-wide status update monthly.

At the end of each quarter, you need to grade the OKRs. Each KR should get a
grade from 0–1 (no, you’re not allowed to grade over a 1.0) representing the
percentage of achievement. This is where it is critical that there is
agreement on the grading scale up front. Many OKR grading sessions end up with
surprising debates about how to grade a numerical KR — make sure to lock that
down upfront. Each Objective should be graded as the average grade of its KRs.
You can also add an overall grade which is the average of all the Objectives
grades.

OKR are not a perfect science. While you are aiming for objectives where 0.7
represents solid success, you will have 1s and you will have 0s — I’ve
explained my fair share of 0s over time. That doesn’t mean the process failed,
or that the team did badly. Maybe things changed, maybe priorities shifted —
it happens.

It is critical that you not tie compensation or promotions directly to OKRs
grades — it will cause sand-bagging, grade inflation, etc. OKRs are best when
they are a process that forces you to really focus on your key priorities.
Removing things from the initial list is a valuable part of the process. As is
setting aggressive targets based on your best estimates of what is possible
but hard to achieve. Tying promotions and pay to this will make the process
overly political.

Finally, I like keeping OKRs in a running Google Doc where you can look back
on last quarters to see what your goals were and how you did. I always like to
have not only the grades, but a description of the results (deals signed,
actual revenue growth, products launched, etc). Looking back on old OKRs can
be a fun walk down memory lane and great institutional memory!

**Wrap Up**  
I hope this guide on my perspective on OKRs was helpful. After using them for
more than a decade both personally and professionally, I find OKRs to be a
very valuable tool for forcing a conversion about what the biggest priorities
are and how to measure your success against those priorities. And perhaps more
than anything else, their value is in forcing conversation (and alignment)
around those things. After all, alignment of objectives is one of the most
valuable things an organization can have.

