---
layout: post
title: How Asking Basic Questions is a Superpower
---

I was having a conversation with a colleague recently and I gave them some
advice that I thought might be useful more broadly — ask the dumb question. I
honestly think this is one of the best superpowers you can have — and luckily
it requires no skill except for a bit of confidence and a lack of ego.

Have you ever been in a meeting and heard something said and just not
understood? And have you looked around the room and believed that everyone
else knew what was going on? And did you decide not to ask your question
because you didn’t want to look like you didn’t know what was going on? I most
certainly have — and not asking those questions is one of my biggest regrets.

I took far too long to learn this lesson. I have been fortunate in my career
to have tremendous opportunities which sometimes left my in jobs where I’ve
been “ [punching above my weight class](https://bothsidesofthetable.com/whom-
should-you-hire-at-a-startup-bc47cac70e49) “. However, that also meant that
sometimes I was younger or less experienced than other people in the room. And
when a topic came up that I didn’t understand, I would be worried that I
didn’t know something that I was supposed to know. So I wouldn’t ask the
question.

My current role at Upstart helped me to break out of this habit, for two
reasons. First, I was entering a new industry in finance and lending and it
felt safe not to know things which might even be considered basic. This helped
free me of my worry that others would think I was in over my head if I asked a
“simple” question — I was just new to the space! Second was our Co-Founder,
Paul Gu. Paul always asks the question. Sometimes I would be thinking “I don’t
understand that, but I assume Paul does” and then Paul would ask the question
on my mind. Paul is incredibly intelligent, but he is willing to ask even
simple questions. And because of that, he learns a lot.

Once I started being willing to ask the “dumb” questions, I was amazed at how
useful a skill it was. I learned quite a bit very quickly and people started
to think I knew a lot about areas that I had only learned about by asking. And
I can’t count the number of times someone would come up to me after a meeting
and say “I’m so glad you asked that, I was wondering the same thing.” Because
quite often when you don’t understand something, you’re not the only one. It’s
just that no one is willing to ask the question because they figure everyone
else already understands!

Ultimately, success will depend on really understanding things. I believe the
most successful people will be those who have a solid grounding in a [wide
range of topics](https://jeffkeltner.com/book-review-range/) and can apply
that knowledge to new situations. There is probably no better way to build
those skills, than by asking the questions whenever you have them!

