---
layout: post
title: A Better Frame for the Google Anti-trust Case
---

I found the anti-trust case against Google extremely under-whelming. There
have been plenty of detailed analyses done on the case and the merits, so I’m
not going to do a deep dive on that here (I’m still partial to Ben Thompson’s
analysis on [Stratechery](https://stratechery.com)). However, I do want to
make a comment about framing — because I see many observers using what I think
is the wrong frame when discussing this issue.

One of the core complaints in the lawsuit is that Google has locked up
distribution for search on mobile by paying Apple to be the default search
engine (I will leave the Android question aside here, as it is more
complicated). The sentiment is that this paid-for default setting closes off
competition and therefore is bad. Plus, if Google’s search offering is that
much better, wouldn’t users choose it anyway?

This framing makes paying to be the default sound like Google’s choice versus
and consumer-choice alternative. I’m not familiar with the details of the
negotiations, but I think a more accurate framing is likely that Apple decided
to charge money for being the default search engine and contemplated offers
from different players. In that context, the whole discussion changes.

Given the power of defaults, if Apple is going to offer up the ability to pay
to be the default, it would be irresponsible for Google not to make an offer.
And given Google’s superior monetization, it is also likely that Google could
afford to be the highest bidder. This isn’t nefarious in some way, it’s just
business — on both sides.

It’s also unclear to me what sort of remedy the DoJ might be asking for.
Should Google not be allowed to bid for an opportunity like this? Should they
be not allowed to bid more than competitors can afford to bid? Neither of
those options really seems to make any sense as a solution. And having a non-
Google default for all iOS devices doesn’t really help develop a competitive
ecosystem — it’s a thumb on the scale for one competitor.

Perhaps the best option would be to have Apple ask the consumer what they
wanted their default search engine to be and then have each provider give some
sort of revenue share to Apple. Apple probably would not like this option as
it will be both (a) a worse/more confusing consumer experience for most users
and (b) less profitable given that no all options are as profitable as Google.
It’s also likely that the outcome will be that 90% of people opt-in to the
Google option — which means nothing really changes (though it does lower the
bar for new entrants — if they an offer a better search experience).

But the key thing here is the framing. The issue that the DoJ has is with
Apple dictating a default search engine to users (and charging someone to be
that default). It’s not really with Google responding to Apple’s offer to have
a paid-default position. So if they don’t want distribution channels to be
owned by a single player (Google or otherwise), they ought to be arguing with
the distributor.

