---
layout: post
title: Book Review- A Promised Land
---

![Promised Land book cover image.](https://cdn-
images-1.medium.com/max/800/0*-Rxm9sVwto5KZ6Xk)

I just finished former President Barrack Obama’s book [A Promised
Land](https://www.amazon.com/Promised-Land-Barack-Obama-
ebook/dp/B08GJZFBYV/ref=tmm-kin-swatch-0?-encoding=UTF8&qid=&sr=) and I highly
recommend it for anyone — or at least anyone who can manage a 600 page
political memoir which is only a Part 1 of 2 (let’s be honest, it feels like
it might be part 1 of 3…).

I found it to be a fascinating inside perspective on the major policy choices
and foreign policy issues of his presidency. I thought his candor about tough
decisions, splits in his team, processes that didn’t work out the way he
wanted, etc were extremely illuminating. It is a clear illustration of the
tough trade-offs and decisions inherit in governing — and clearly demonstrates
his thoughtful approach to each. And whether you agree with him or not, I
think everyone will appreciate the thinking behind how he approached major
decision through out his time in office.

I actually enjoy reading many political memoirs from across the political. I
found George W Bush’s [-Decision Points-](https://www.amazon.com/Decision-
Points-George-W-Bush-
ebook/dp/B003F3PK5Y/ref=sr-1-1?dchild=1&keywords=decision%20points&qid=1615936908&s=digital-
text&sr=1-1) quite interesting as well, so this isn’t an issue of political
leaning. However, after four years of a lack of real thoughtfulness in the
White House, I found this read very refreshing — and it helped me regain some
confidence that at its core, our government is generally managed by
thoughtful, well-meaning people trying to do what they think is best in our
country.

Perhaps that reminder is what I really needed.

