---
layout: post
title: Running Docs
---

I’m not sure what the right term is for people like me, but there should be
one. I tend to keep iterating through different productivity tools and methods
constantly. Some of this I think is a healthy evolution as I learn new things
and try to get better at managing myself and my tasks. And some of it is
probably a bit unhealthy. I know there are others like me — who just have to
try the latest tool / technique — I’m just not sure what they’re called.

Given my propensity to frequent change, I’m hesitant to share my current
system with folks since I’m sure I’ll find a flaw in it soon. However, when I
find a technique that really shows value and lasts over time, I figure it’s
probably got some long lasting value. One of those tools for me is the running
document.

I’ve long struggled with how to keep notes for meetings. How should I organize
or structure them? For a long time I would just use one document for each
meeting — but that becomes cumbersome and just results in a lot of files. Then
I started using running documents and I love them.

These are documents that follow a meeting or topic and I just add to over
time.I always add newer material at the top of the running document, so that
when I open it up I can get the latest information right away. I will
typically add a section header with the date for a new entry at the top, and
then add my content. I just use basic text documents for this, but I use them
in a number of different contexts:

  * **Internal Meetings** I usually just have one document for each meeting with the notes from each. Sometimes I keep this on the team-level with multiple different regular meetings (weekly team meetings, quarterly offsite, etc) in the same document.
  * **Customer Notes** This is one of my favorites — just keep one document with notes from all of my meetings with a customer or partner. Easy to find all the history and context quickly.
  * **1 on 1s** I don’t take notes in all of my 1:1s, because I want to really focus on the individual and the conversation. However, I try to jot down key themes/ides afterwards — and remember to add topics to discuss next time.
  * **OKRs** This one is a lot of fun to look back at. Some people like to track OKRs in a spreadsheet where they can use formulas for grading. I prefer to just keep them in a document, typically in bullet points. I create a header for the quarter. Top level bullets for objectives, second-level bullets for Key Results. When graded, I add a score in brackets at the front of the line (eg [0.7] Key result 2) and highlight it Green/Yellow/Red. I also add a (non-bullet) line below KRs in italics with details on the results. Having a history of several years of OKRs in one document is just fun.

I hope that run through on how I use running documents was useful. It’s a
great way to keep track of things and I’ve really enjoyed it — it’s a keeper!

If your’e curious about tools, I currently use (and love) the [Bear app
](https://bear.app/)(Mac and iOS) for notes. It’s a simple markdown tool that
is both simple and elegant and works perfectly for me. Yes, I’ve played with
[Roam](https://roamresearch.com/) — but I find that Bear is doing everything I
need right now.

